we tend to associate making a
photographic image by capturing it in a
fraction of a second this is usually the
case that the camera can allow us to
choose many different exposure settings
from a fraction of a second to multiples
of minutes and even hours one of the
skills of the season photographer is to
be able to choose a subject and have a
good idea of how the final image will
look in a magazine or on a gallery wall
my photographic work has essentially
been producing imagery in a documentary
genre catching people as a fly on the
wall photographer usually needs a quick
shutter speed to record detail
expressions on faces body posture and
gestures I've been lucky enough to be
involved in professional photography for
more than 30 years and during the past
10 years I've enjoyed photograph in the
landscape we can adopt many technical
exposure tricks but the skill is in
using them to create the ultimate image
an image that recalls the moment when
the camera shutter is open is a
fascination for me
I'm not a supporter of carrying a number
of lenses like prefer to move closer or
further away from the subject I feel a
choice of lenses complicates the
situation and why you decide which focal
length lame the suits are seen the light
is changing and the image will be lost
selecting the subject to capture on film
should be the most important factor to
creating a photographic image because
you have to set up your tripod and
commit to making a fairly lengthy
exposure the ideal lighting for long
exposure photography is either dawn or
dusk the quality of light is wonderful
and also the light is limited thus given
the long exposure
we think of long exposure photography
only being used in landscape or night
photography but there are many instances
where you can use extended shutter
exposures I enjoy using artificial light
and introducing it into the image during
the exposure yes there is HDR but
creating the perfect exposure in the
taking stage of the process is much more
realistic I shot this image on the 3
minute exposure using multiple flash to
light the shadow areas I walked around
the photograph setting off the flash gun
or manual because I moved each time I
released a flash the film did not record
me at all
photography means painting with light I
have on numerous occasions photographed
underground in coal mines because
batteries are not allowed on the ground
I used wet cell helmet lamps to paint
the miners with light the exposures were
between 10 and 15 seconds so i asked the
minus to stay still while I painted them
with light coal production was being
lost so I didn't have much time to
create the images if I should color I
use a neutral density filter to extend
the exposure if I shoot black-and-white
however I use a red filter which
lightens its own color and darkens it's
opposites this increases a contrast of
the image makes it more dramatic these
are just a few examples working with
long exposure actually on commissioned
assignments the list however is endless